Big Data advances the revolution of measurement through various means. Kitchin notes that Big Data is huge in volume, high in velocity, diverse in variety, exhaustive in scope, fine-grained in resolution, indexical in identification, relational in nature, flexible and scalable. In other words, Big Data becomes a highly effective, almost perfect tool of measurement as a result of its ability to be generated continuously while simultaneously being exhaustive and fine-grained in scope as well as flexible and scalable in production. Thus, being able to understand this data in both its vast quantity and quality becomes imperative and sheds light on the importance of data science in the modern technological era. As Kitchin notes, a number of technological developments such as ubiquitous computing, widespread internet working, and new database designs and storage solutions have created a tipping point for their routine generation and analysis, consequently emphasizing the importance of data science and data scientists to cope with this data abundance. Kitchin articulates this notion by saying that “Big Data analytics enables an entirely new epistemological approach for making sense of the world; rather than testing a theory by analysing relevant data, new data analytics seek to gain insights ‘born from the data.’” (Kitchin 2). In addition, the variety of data along with its exhaustivity and relationality, provides finely grained and nuanced analysis that can extend understandings of the social and spatial world in relation to human movement, behavior and relationships. Specifically, due to the extensiveness of Big Data, it becomes possible to test the accuracy of theories about communities, societies and environments as well as provide useful insight with respect to formulating policy and addressing the various issues facing humankind. The analysis of this data allows for proliferation, digitization and interlinking of analogue and unstructured data in new and more accessible formats like social media and the digitization of media like books, documents, newspapers, photographs, art works, and material objects, thus shedding light on human processes and relationships. Ultimately, the components of Big Data including its massive size and scope as well as velocity allow for data scientists to better understand human development as it can provide insight with a greater depth, breadth, and scale through its computational prowess and ability to produce outputs in near real-time. 
